# Game Review for Good Pizza, Great Pizza

## Details

### Game Title

"Good Pizza, Great Pizza".
This game can be found on the Google Play Store

### Rating

4 out of 5 stars 

## Summary

The game 'Good Pizza, Great Pizza' (GPGP) follows you, a new pizza shop owner, as you go through the endeavors opening a new pizza shop entails. As soon as you enter the game, there is an animated short that explains to you how you came to open this small pizza shop and it ends with an angry man at your counter which is where you start the game. You gather that this is the owner of another pizza shop in the surrounding area and that he sees you as a threat, thus making you rivals. The rival pizza shop owner challenges you to make a pizza to prove your worth. With this transition in play style you find yourself in a tutorial and are shown how to make, bake, and serve the pizzas to your customers. You are introduced to how certain objects work, like the oven, pizza cutter, and profit mechanic. You are also shown that there is a time mechanic that works in the form of days and daily cash out reports to track your progress. At the end of the day you see how much you made, how much you spent on supplies, and your progress as it relates to previous performance in the game. You are also led to a screen that allows you to purchase more items to put on your pizzas, upgrades to your equipment, and other bonuses. And as your day ends at the pizza shop the game cuts to a news broadcast to show how the story of your shop is coming along. It tells you all about your pizza shop and information about it ranging from how it started up, to how it is competing with your rival, to when it reaches milestones. After the broadcast you are progressed to the next day where the customers get more complicated, timing is quicker, and the difficulty increases.
There were a few different mechanics in GPGP, the first one you are introduced to is taking an order from the customer. Your screen shows you at the counter of your restaurant and one of the customer characters is in front of you telling you what kind of pizza they want. You have the option to say yes right away and start making the pizza, or you can click a separate option that makes the customer explain what they want in a less detail each time. So what once was ‘can you get me a pizza but leave out all the fancy toppings I just want cheese’ progresses to ‘I just want a cheese pizza’ which ends with ‘just sauce and cheese please’ to ensure the player understands what to make. I like that there was an option to ‘troll’ the game and see what it came up with, it made it seem like there were more options and that it wasn’t completely linear or that you had to click certain things each time. 
Another mechanic of the game was making the pizza itself. You step away from the counter and you step into the kitchen, there are tubs of ingredients in front of you as well as a pan of dough balls which shows you how many customers you could have that day. You take one of the rolls and you put it on the work surface and then you drag and color each ingredient on the pizza. As long as you put ingredients within the guide circle on the pizza and as long as there are enough ingredients on the dough you are able to lay the ingredients however you like on each pizza. It gives the game a little bit more of a ‘creative freedom’ feel to it but also allows some challenge, for example if you are running out of time the game won’t just let you put a dot of each ingredient to go quicker, it will keep you on the ingredients page until you meet the quota. After putting on all of the ingredients you put the pizza in the oven where it rolls through to the other side. The other side of the oven is where you cut the pizza according to how many slices the customer wants and over lines guiding you on the way the game wants the pizza cut.
The last mechanic of this game is the upgrades and purchases mechanic. In the section in between days you are given the option to buy more ingredients for money. You can also purchase upgrades and more equipment as the game plays on. This gives the game its form of economy and shows the player how they need to meet certain standards and quotas to save for better game objects that help them perform better during the day. This means that doing poor work will lead to less tips, which will lead to lower profit, which in turn leads to less money for upgrades meaning you get either stuck saving at this level for a while or you get stuck during the day with not being able to keep up and continuously failing the levels. And as time goes on and you get more equipment and upgrades the game gets more and more challenging and fun. You end up making pizzas of all different types and quantities and find yourself racing against the clock. 

## Final Thoughts

Overall, I really liked the game. It reminded me of similar styled pizza making games on 
kid friendly MMO games I would play growing up, like Webkinz and Club Penguin. I liked the simplicity of the game too and can see myself playing it in my free time or while I’m waiting somewhere. It’s illustration style is cartoon-y and hand drawn, the characters are really cute and resemble something you may see in a short animation. You can really tell that whoever made the game put a lot of time into its presentation and that they really cared about the story they were putting in the background, it wasn’t glossed over and you got updates on the story every night from the news broadcast as well as some days where the rival chef challenges you in the mornings. The story was clearly important to the creator and I love seeing that in games. The only thing that I think may be worth noting is the money feature, like I stated there are times way later in the game where things get challenging and if you continuously fail a level there’s no way to bypass it. So if someone’s skill for tap games caps out they don’t have a way to progress and may stop playing. But it’s not an extremely challenging game so it should be fine for most players. But it was a really nice slice-of-life styled game that offered a cute escape from reality for a while. I would definitely check it out if you want to feel nostalgic and just spend your time making cartoon pizzas at a small pizza shop.

## Additional Information

I didn't reference any other reviews during this game, but there are plenty on the Google Play store available to read.
